NORTHFIELD, Minn. -- Neighbors in Northfield are keeping an eye out after a black bear was spotted in a neighborhood overnight Friday.

It's the latest of several bear sightings in Minnesota including some close to the Twin Cities.

"The most we ever get is deer, a fox once in a while," Northfield resident Lauren Vosejpka said.

She can now add black bear to the list of wildlife passing through her neighborhood. It was spotted twice overnight Friday digging through garbage cans and bird feeders.

"To know that is was this close is kind of scary. I mean those suckers are huge!" she said.


Even longtime residents like Dick Audiss were surprised.

"I've never ever heard of a bear in Northfield," Audiss said.

Between 12,000 and 16,000 black bears live in Minnesota, the Minnesota DNR says. For the past 20 years the population has been growing and expanding further south and west. The DNR keeps track of sightings on its website.   

black-bear-northfield.jpg 
NORTHFIELD POLICE
"Five years ago you would rarely hear about a bear in Hennepin or Ramsey county and now they are fairly regular if not residents," Three Rivers Park District Senior Manager of Wildlife John Moriarty said.


Last week, a mom and her three cubs were spotted in Elm Creek Park Reserve in Maple Grove. They were also spotted on Saturday and Sunday evening. Moriarty says it's likely the same bear that's lived in the park since 2020.

"They aren't out there stalking people or stalking your pets. The reason they are coming to your yard is because you left a greasy grill, you're still feeding your dog outside. That's not a good practice for any wildlife," he said.

He says most bear attacks involve pets so it's always best to keep them on a leash. Bringing in garbage cans and taking down bird feeders can help move the bear along.

"It's not common to see them. So feel fortunate if you do get to see one," he said.

Another reason why bear sightings seem to be on the rise is that more people have home security cameras that capture them passing through.
